Privacy Policy and Disclosure

Privacy Policy for medical-transcription-sample-reports.blogspot.com
The privacy of our visitors to medical-transcription-sample-reports.blogspot.com is important to us.  At medical-transcription-sample-reports.blogspot.com, we recognize that privacy of your personal information is important. Here is information on what types of personal information we receive and collect when you use and visit medical-transcription-sample-reports.blogspot.com, and how we safeguard your information. We never sell your personal information to third parties.
Log Files 
As with most other websites, we collect and use the data contained in log files. The information in the log files include your IP (internet protocol) address, your ISP (internet service provider, such as AOL or Shaw Cable), the browser you used to visit our site (such as Internet Explorer or Firefox), the time you visited our site and which pages you visited throughout our site.
Cookies and Web Beacons 
We do use cookies to store information, such as your personal preferences when you visit our site. This could include only showing you a popup once in your visit, or the ability to login to some of our features, such as forums. Third-party vendors, including Google, use cookies to serve ads based on a user's prior visits to your website. Google's use of the DART cookie enables it and its partners to serve ads to our users based on their visit to our sites and/or other sites on the Internet. The cookies of other 
third-party vendors or ad networks
 may also be used to serve ads on this site. You can opt-out of this ad serving on all sites using this advertising by visiting,
http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp
We also use third party advertisements on medical-transcription-sample-reports.blogspot.com to support our site. Some of these advertisers may use technology such as cookies and web beacons when they advertise on our site, which will also send these advertisers (such as Google through the Google AdSense program) information including your IP address, your ISP , the browser you used to visit our site, and in some cases, whether you have Flash installed. This is generally used for geotargeting purposes (showing New York real estate ads to someone in New York, for example) or showing certain ads based on specific sites visited (such as showing cooking ads to someone who frequents cooking sites).